ok so it's now go ahead and add another
test method to the bank account test
class we can do that anytime we don't
have to match a test method to a method
in the class for testing although in an
actual development environment it
wouldn't make sense for us to do so
test methods have to be annotated though
with the org. junit test
annotation as you can see that the three
methods in the bank account test class
currently are they must also be public
and must also return void now when
working with older test Suites you might
see that the test methods begin with the
name test and that's because older
versions of j unit didn't have a test
annotation and so we have to begin test
method names with tests in order for the
framework to identify test methods we
don't have to do that which is why
IntelliJ doesn't generate method names
that follow that the outdated convention
right so let's set add some code going to
add another method here that's going to
be...
...
when we did that the highlighted in
yellow so intelliJ was telling us that
its now valid test notice i mentioned
towards the end of the last video when
we work with j unit we make assertions
about what we expect to happen if these
assertions are met then the test passes
but if they're not met then the test
fails so important implication is
that a test can pass even though
our code has bugs because none of the
tests in our test suite made an
assertion that will catch the bug as we
seen when an empty test method runs
its considered a pass and that's again
because null assertions failed when it
ran that's really important to remember
that the test suites that we write all
the methods will only cover the
situations that we test against
assertions
alright so let's now change the
dummy test method so that it tests
whether two integers are equal so i'm
going to type....
...
now when using these cert equals
method the first parameter is the value
we expect and the second parameter is
the value we want to test or the actual
value and obviously this test here is
quite a silly one because we have
hard-coded values but to let's run it
anyway and see what happens but instead
of running the entire test suite which
we've done in the past by clicking up
clicking the Run button up here which we
could also do with this junit
pane open we can also click down here
instead of doing that we can actually
click on this little green arrow here to
the left in the gutter of the method and
then will run the tests just for this one
method click on that now and run it
and see here i can click on run dummy
test and you can see that one test failed
this time we haven't got the list of the other
tests because we only ran this one
single test and we've got a similar
error on the right hand side in that we
got the insertion failed come up and
but it actually showed us that we
expected the value 20 but we saw the
value of 21 and that's in line with the
fact that we put two different
numbers on line 27 note also when that
happen when we run the test this way this
little icons change
now and also over here notice that I
we've got a different run
configuration so once is being created
just for that method if we drop down
click on the drop-down we can see now
we've got main bank account test which
we run all the tests in this class and
bank account test . dummy tests we will leave
that on there and run that now only run
just one test for that method but
if you want to run all the methods
all the tests in the bank account test
class select bank account test only run
that we're now getting a list of the four
methods or the four tests running down
the bottom of the screen
alright so we have seen how you can add
test methods to the test class and
hopefully now you've got a bit of a feel
for how junit works
let's go ahead and delete this dummy
test method we really don't need that
anymore and what I suggest you do
is come over here and click on the
drop-down click on edit configurations
and you just expande this so you
can see what it is just a little bit bigger so we
can do that you can actually remove this
one as well this dummy test we no longer need
click on minus click on ok so
that we don't get confuse later down the track now
that we've deleted that method
alright so let's now go ahead and write
a test for the bank account .deposit
method going start
working up here and we'll start by
creating an instance of bank account
go ahead and do that i'm going to delete
the fail because we're
actually at the stage of writing our
tests so bank account...
....
so again i deleted the call to
the fail method now because we're
actually implementing this test now
alright so let's call the deposit method
with the value of 200 we're going to set
the second parameter the true meaning
that the transaction is taking place at
a branch with the help of the teller
right now the bank account deposit
method isn't using that parameter so i'm
going to type....
...
alright so obviously we started with the
balance of 1000 on line 11 deposited 200
on line 12 so the bank account deposit
methods should return 1200 this is where
we can call use assert equals method to
assert that the expected value should be
1200 now the actual value will test
against is the value returned by the
deposit method note here that when
comparing objects the cert equals method
uses the equals method of the objects
being compared to make the comparison
alright so....
...
....we're going to accept import so
when comparing doubles I've chosen to use
the version of the method that accepts the
third parameter and that's a delta
parameter and what that does is allow
some leeway in the comparison so as long
as the difference between the expected
and actual values is is within the Delta
we specify the assertion will pass now
in this case we expected value to be
exactly 1200.00 so you start with the
delta of 0 and change it if we discovered
that the value returned was like 1199
.999999 etc that sometimes happens when
you're working with double
calculations right so let's rerun our test
suite coming here making sure
that the run window here you
selected bank account test click on run
we are now back to three tests because
we deleted the fourth one but also i can
see here that the deposit method is now
successful it's changed to showing okay
and is in green indicating that that
test has actually succeeded
ok so we can have more than one
assertion in the test for example we may
want to verify that the bank account
balance instance variable now equals
1200 let's go ahead and add an assertion
to that below the first assertion so....
....
same thing happens we still got the
deposit to completed
successfully and then withdrawing get
balance are failing as expected at this point
in time because we haven't implemented
them so every test method should be
self-contained in other words what
happens in one test method shouldn't
depend on what happened in another test
method so every test method should start
fresh and be able to run independently
of the other test methods and you saw
earlier we were able to run
the dummy test method independently and
having said that though we can have instance
variables in our test class depending on
the code it may make sense
to create a single instance of a class
that we're testing that all the test
methods use essentially when writing a
test a question you want to ask is
whether the test can run and pass on its
own and the answer to that question
should always be yes
alright so in the case of the deposit
test even though we can add more than
one assert to the same test it's not
best practice to do so the best practice
is actually one test per test condition
or assertion so given that let's copy
the body of the deposit test method
to the balance method
ok let's go ahead and do that i'm going
to copy that code and paste it into the
balance overwriting the existing fail
method what I'm going to do here is
delete this second test which we now no longer
need and that's because we're
about to do that in the get balance test I'm
going remove this first assertion in
the get balance test because the one
that we want to test here is the value
getting back coming back from our get
balance which is the value coming back
from our account object so let's delete
also the first part of line 25 since we
no longer need to keep the value in a
variable anymore unlike what we did on
the in the deposit test at the top of
the screen right let's run our test suite
again we can see that the get balanced
test and the deposit method are both
working or tests are both
working we've got two successes there and
only one failure which is the withdraw
test and that's correct again we haven't
implemented that at this stage
alright so let's say that we wanted to
verify the value of the bank account
deposit after calling the withdrawn method
now doing so within the balance test
method would be bad practice so we're
gonna add another method for that but
here's another good practice for you to
follow test method name should give some
indication of the actual condition
they are testing so what I suggest we do
here is we the get existing get balance
method will actually change that and
we'll put an underscore deposit on the
end of it to indicate the type of tests
were doing for that particular test and
then let's add another method to test
the withdraw
function of our class i'm gonna go ahead and
copy that entire method paste it i'm
going to change the name where it's got
deposit to withdraw now obviously this
test will be a bit different in that we
going to be calling the withdraw
method instead of the deposit withdraw and
the assertion here should be a different
value the value should now be 800
because we started on a thousand dollars
taking two hundred dollars out so
the balance that we should be asserting
or checking against should be 800 like so
let's run this again
alright we can see now we've got 4 test
showing and three succeeding and we can
also now tell from the test method name
showing down there on the bottom left
hand corner of the screen exactly what
each method was testing one is testing
the deposit method ones verifying the
balance after deposit and the others are
verifying the balance after withdrawal
so now that we've got to a few more
tests lets actually try out the toggle above
the test results i'm just going to come
down over here and the size up the
screen so you can see that little bit
you see this ok button actually toggle
which will show you either all the
tests or only the ones that fail so click
on that once is now showing only the ones
that are failed and that can be useful
when there's a large number of tests you
can quickly just show the ones that are
failing so you can start working on those
and in addition if I click that again here
to see all of them we can click on a
particular method to see its results in
the console that's results for a single
one in the case of where they worked and
there's been no errors we are not
getting any output that would change if
we've actually got output in the method
but where there's just been in an assert
and there's been no other output will
see nothing for test that
have succeeded in the case of one that
that has failed will get the assertion in this
case based on our failure method that we
called and the text that was passed to
that ok so let's add a method to the
bank account class that returns true if
you can as a checking account and false
otherwise I'm going to go back to our
bank account class so we could use a
enum for these
types of accounts but since you've
only got 2 we are going to use
an instant constant for both so let's go ahead
and do that so I'm going to do...
...
so let's go back now and add a
test for the is checking method to the
bank account test class now notice now
because we made changes to the
constructor that we've got these errors
in our various tests we can go ahead and
change that and let's make the default
type of account or that account for
these calls all to be checking...
...
like so that's three now let's fix these
errors
alright we'll go ahead now and do ia
test now for is checking.....
...
...so how do we actually check this well we
copy the constructor line the
line that actually creates a new object for
us because that's going to be the same
and we could do....
....
...
when you're testing a value against true
or false
it's actually preferable instead
of using assert equals to use assert true
or assert false both are separate methods
so.....
...
we can run that get the same result and
likewise if you wanted to test whether
something is false
change assert true to assert false so
when you actually go ahead clicking on
these tests that have failes or
succeeded
it's not really very useful for small
test Suites and tests that only got
one assertion but when skimming the
results of a large test suite coming up
to here like so or if we've got tests
that are performing more than one assert
call then the messages can be really
helpful keep in mind that sometimes j
unit tests are being run as part of the
build process and not manually so as
part of that failed test results may be
saved to a file or human might have to
look at the results which could be
numerous and that's when these messages
can be really quite useful ones that
we're currently added here to fail so in
line with that what we can do is we can
not only just leave the assert true like
this can actually put in a message that
will be it will pop up in the failure case
so account...
that would be the preferable way of
writing that so from our point of view
nothing will change it
that's because with the assertions is
returning true but if that didn't return true for
some reason and we could simulate that
by changing it to savings
re running our test you can see now that
we are getting the error the account is not
a checking account because this
assertion has failed so that again can be
quite useful to put that back to what
it was rerun it again so that
its working so again it's part of a
big software team or the unit tests
are being performed as part of the build
process these types of messages can be
really useful to help a developer figure
out what changes need to be made
alright I'm going to finish the video
here in the next video we start talking
about some other j unit assertion
methods and then move on to some more
advanced junit testing techniques see you
in the next video